# Abstract
Ground-level ozone is a hazardous pollutant that silently
kills humans, animals, and plants. This type of ozone is formed
when oxides of nitrogen (NO<sub>x</sub>) and volatile organic
compounds (VOCs) chemically react in the presence of sunlight
and high temperatures. Aside from the reactants of ozone,
several other factors such as motor vehicle emissions, fossil
fuels, and particulate matter are correlates of ozone.

The US has a network of sensors to monitor and predict ozone
levels. These forecasts, however, are chiefly based on current
ozone levels. If these forecasts based their models on the
sources of ozone such as traffic (motor vehicles), their
estimations would be more accurate, as ozone does not
maintain a strong correlation with time. Furthermore, the
current predictions are far too complex to be implemented in
local areas, since they are intended for large regions.

This project attempts to use past data to develop a
correlation between ozone levels and the causes of ozone. The
expectation is that supervised machine learning algorithms can
be developed to accurately and efficiently model ozone levels
against the causes of ozone in three different locations and
scales.

Following the outlined procedure, a supervised machine
learning algorithm was successfully developed. Using this
algorithm, ozone levels can now be predicted with higher
accuracy than before, and can be predicted efficiently in
local areas with no ozone monitors. Lastly, this algorithm
could also be used to find accurate correlations with other
pollutants, in order to create predictions for them as well.